# PatrickBallarano - Bitcoin OP_RETURN
## This project will store and index all BTC OP_RETURN data for BTC signet blockchain.

### <br />This project runs a dockerized bitcoin-core node and does not need a local node. <br />If you would rather run your own node, you will need to change the `docker-compose.yml` file environment variables to those which match your machine listed below: <br />If running local node, please change your `RPC_HOST` values to those associated to windows/mac docker localhost DNS name.<br />Docker mac/linux DNS name: `host.docker.internal` <br />Docker windows DNS name: `docker.for.win.localhost`<br />You will need docker installed for this project: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/.


#### <br />To start, run the following commands:<br /> `npm run start` OR `npm run start-wo-btc` IF running your own bitcoin node. <br /> If you want to view logs, you can access them by clicking on the corresponding container in Docker Desktop. <br />The services can be stopped with: `npm run stop` and/or destroyed with `npm run destroy`. <br />If running your own local bitcoin node, please use these commands instead: `npm run stop-wo-btc` and `npm run destroy-wo-btc`.


#### <br />This command will start indexing the bitcoin signet blockchain in the background, and open a server at `localhost:3000` which will have the following endpoints: <br />`localhost:3000/node-status` for checking signet node data <br />`localhost:3000/indexing-status` for checking latest block indexed vs. current signet block. <br />`localhost:3000/opreturn/${opReturnData}` for checking tx hash and block hash of blocks storing OP_RETURN codes with the data `opReturnData`. <br />`localhost:3000/opreturn/text/${opReturnText}` does the same thing as `/opreturn` endpoint, but can search with plain text instead such as 'exodus' <br />`localhost:3000/opreturn/txn/${opReturnTxn}` searches the blockchain and finds OP_RETURN data for `opReturnTxn` if any exists. `opReturnTxn` should be a transaction id. <br />`localhost:3000/opreturn/block/${opReturnBlock}` searches the blockchain and finds OP_RETURN transactions for the block at height `opReturnBlock` if any exists.